Anxiety is the very real and normal emotion
we feel in a stressful situation.
It's related to fear.
But while fear is a response to an
immediate threat that quickly subsides,
anxiety is a response to more
uncertain threats that tends to last much longer.
It's all part of the threat detection system,
which all animals have to some degree,
to help protect us from predators.
Our muscles tense,
our breathing and heart rate increase
and our blood pressure rises.
This is the fight-or-flight response.
With anxiety, these threat-detection systems
are functioning incorrectly
and cause us to worry about
the future and our safety in it.
For people with an anxiety disorder,
the anxiety does not go away
and can get worse over time.
Disrupting work, school and relationships
and leads them to avoid situations
that may trigger symptoms.
Anxiety disorders are not at all uncommon.
Researchers estimate that about
16 percent of individuals currently have
or have had an anxiety disorder.
Common symptoms of anxiety include:
Feeling nervous, restless or tense
Increased heart rate
Breathing rapidly
Sweating or trembling
Trouble sleeping
Studies have shown that people with
anxiety disorders don't just have a
different way of reacting to stress.
There may be actual differences
in how their brain is working.
The pathways in the brain that
signal anxiety become stronger.
And the more anxiety you have,
the stronger the pathways become,
and it becomes a vicious cycle.
The good news is there's treatment for anxiety.
Cognitive behavioral therapy,
a form of talk therapy,
can help you learn to identify
upsetting thoughts and determine
whether they're realistic.
Over time,
cognitive behavioral therapy can
rebuild those neural pathways
that tamp down the anxiety response.
Medication can also give relief,
anti-anxiety medication
and anti-depressants
are most commonly used to help
control symptoms that are going into overdrive.
Talk with your healthcare provider to determine
the treatment that’s right for you.